[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr.
Welcome to "Gaiam Inspirations."
And welcome to our beautiful
Los Angeles studio.
Let me ask you a question.
Would you like to
learn how to accept
yourself more in
order to be more
confident, and more loving?
Now that's a really,
really big question.
And I want that to settle in.
Because that is what spiritual
teacher, Denise Linn,
teaches through her
powerful story and her
over 17 books on living a
spiritually radiant life.
Welcome to the show.
Thank you so much
for being here.
Thank you for having me.
And one of the
phrases that comes
to mind when I-- I hear you
tell your story is, oh my god.
If you can do
everything that you've
done in your life after
what you've been through,
absolutely anybody can.
And you are such an
inspiration to so many people.
So I appreciate you being here.
And if you could, tell
us about when you were
a teenager living your life.
Where did you grow up?
Um, most of my life I
grew up here in California.
But when I was in high
school, we lived in Ohio.
And--
And your parents
were teachers, right?
Well, they were
scientists, actually.
-Scientists.
-They were both chemists.
And-- and I wanted
to be a scientist.
And my brother went on to
become an astrophysicist,
my sister a marine biologist.
My other brother got
involved in computers.
So that was the
direction of my life
as a young teenager and
a high school student.
Um, but the whole
reason, I guess,
I got into the field I'm in now
was a result of an experience
I had when I was 17 years old.
I-- I had one of those
little motorbikes.
And I was so excited
with my little motorbike.
And it was a tiny,
little town in Ohio.
It was a farming community.
And I went out when August
afternoon with my motorbike.
I was 17, as I said.
And what I didn't realize was
I was being followed by someone
who was a man I didn't know,
I hadn't done anything to him
and in a kind of isolated area.
He hit the gas and you rammed
his car into my motorbike,
and he hit it hard.
I flew off the motorbike.
I skidded across the road.
Could you-- did you
know what was happening?
Well, it was obvious
he hit me on purpose.
And I couldn't understand it.
Because, you know, I was
just minding my own business.
And I could remember
watching his car leave.
And I'm thinking, well
why did he hit me?
And as I watched, he
pulled in, turned around
and he was coming back.
And I thought, well he's--
he's coming back to help me.
But he--
So, when you said it's
obvious he hit you on purpose,
was the-- how did you know that?
How did you feel that?
Because he pulled his car
right up next to me, and then
he turned into me.
-Oh.
I mean it was-- he turned
into me hard enough
that later some of
the paint from his car
was on my little motorbike.
So he hit it pretty hard.
So it--
So when he turned around--
Yeah, I'm thinking he's
coming back to help me.
But he-- he pulled his
car up alongside me,
and rolled the window down and,
Lisa do you know-- have you
ever had those kind of
dramatic experiences
in life when they seem
to be going so slow.
What happened next seemed
like it was in slow motion,
where he pulled out a gun.
And I'm looking into
the hole of this gun.
And I can't believe that
someone is aiming a gun at me.
And suddenly, there was
this loud explosion.
And he had shot me.
Oh my god.
You're-- did you
just-- your brain
just not be able to handle it.
I couldn't-- I
couldn't fathom that.
Yeah
I mean and in the
little tiny farming
town in Ohio in
those days, people
just didn't shoot each other.
It was very different
than society today.
Very, surreal, oh.
And-- and as I was laying
there, I heard the sound
of his car door open and close.
And then I could hear the sound
of him walking on the gravel.
And then I heard the sound
of a zipper going down.
And he cocked the
gun once again.
I opened my eyes, and for
some unknown reason, all
I felt in that moment.
I didn't feel afraid.
Which seemed strange.
A guy just hit me,
and he shot me.
Why wouldn't I be afraid?
Where in your
body were you shot?
He shot me in the lower abdomen.
And it actually
bounced off my spine,
and ended-- or went through
actually one of the vertebras,
and then lodged up
in one of my lungs.
So the bullet was still in you?
Yeah.
And were you in an
extraordinary amount of pain?
Extraordinary amount of pain.
Some people said, I've
heard it doesn't get--
it doesn't hurt to get shot.
It hurts.
It really hurts.
Who would say that?
And evidently,
when he had hit me,
evidently my spleen
had exploded too.
Because that's how
hard he'd hit me.
So there was a lot
of other damage
done from being hit by the car.
I'm surprised you
did not die instantly.
It was a miracle.
Based on the amount of
damage that you're explaining.
You know, I lost a spleen.
I lost an adrenaline gland.
I lost a kidney.
I lost a good part of one
of my lungs eventually.
Like I said,
there's a hole still
through my spine about the
size of my little finger.
I had a six-inch tube
replacing the aorta.
I was told I would
never have children.
They took out part of
the small intestine,
some part of the stomach.
So it was a lot of damage.
Do you see why I said in
the beginning of the show,
I am amazed that you're
sitting here today
to talk to me about this.
Incredible.
So you were laying there,
surprisingly alive.
And most likely filled
with so much pain
and slightly in and
out of consciousness.
But you were still able to
open your eyes and look?
Yeah.
I just-- I looked
into his eyes, and I
just felt compassion for him.
And go figure.
How?
I mean I-- you know
maybe-- I have no idea.
But in that moment I just
felt a depth of compassion.
And he wanted to shoot me.
And I could watch almost
this internal struggle
going on inside of
him, where part of him
really wanted to shoot me.
And another part, just because,
I think just because of the way
I was looking at him--
You looked at his
eyes, his face.
Yeah, and just-- and
his arm begin to shake.
And it was-- then suddenly he
dropped the arm with the gun
in it.
And he just dropped and turned
around, and he drove away.
And I was lucky.
Because evidently there
were a number of other women
that he had killed.
I'm the only-- I was
the only woman who--
who survived his attack.
And--
You were able to
identify him, and find out
that he was a serial killer?
I was, yeah.
And how-- how do you tell
this story without going
into-- I mean the first time
you told the story to me,
I was sobbing.
And I couldn't understand
how you endured so much.
And you have such a
loving heart today.
You know, this,
as bad as this was,
there were things in my
childhood that were much worse.
They weren't as
dramatic, but much worse.
And I-- I don't
know how I made it.
Because not everybody
can make-- make it
through a really
challenging childhood,
and dramatic events in life.
But I'm so grateful that I did.
So let's go back to that moment.
And you were laying there
on the side of the road.
Who found you?
Um, I was found by a stranger,
someone just passing by.
And I was taken to--
and I was conscious.
And I was taken to
the emergency ward.
And I can remember
the drive there.
I can remember how beautiful
the trees were and the sky.
And you think, this guy has
just hit you, he shot you.
What are you doing
thinking about how
beautiful everything was?
You weren't in trauma, shock?
I must have been.
Because why was I thinking,
isn't this beautiful?
But I could just
remember looking
at the sky and the clouds,
and being deeply appreciative
of the beauty of our world.
Again, I can't understand that.
But that's what I experienced.
And when I got to the
hospital people were shouting.
Because like I said, nobody get
shot in that part of the world.
And it was a tiny
little country hospital.
And I was in so much pain, and
the-- the noises were so loud.
And the-- the lights
were so bright.
And then it all got really
quiet and dark and soft,
and the pain subsided.
I felt like I was inside of
this black sphere or bubble.
People say you were
in-- you were, you know,
you were in the tunnel.
In the void.
Yeah.
That's what it seemed.
Were you indeed dying?
You know, I didn't
have a sense of dying.
I was just noticing
what I was experiencing.
The doctor said
I'd actually died.
So my physical body at
that point um-- was you
know, they actually told
someone that I died.
So--
Well, but it sounds
like that experience--
but was that experience of that
darkness that you explained,
and the quietness,
was there pain there?
No.
It was just.
Gone.
It was just very serene.
And then it was like this dark
soft black bubble I was in.
It was like it
burst, and everywhere
was this beautiful,
beautiful golden light.
And I was so happy.
I'd never heard of near-death
experiences before.
And all I knew was
that I was home.
I knew I'd been there before.
It was familiar.
And it was so real, and
so familiar and beautiful
that my life up to that
point, seemed like a dream.
Do you remember that moment,
vividly, like it was yesterday?
I remember it so vividly.
In fact, it was years
before I could talk about it
without bursting into tears.
Because I was homesick.
Because it was so beautiful.
And then you came back,
and-- and at that point did
you wake back up at any moment?
Do you remember waking back up?
Well, I was there for a while.
I remember-- there
were some things
that were-- they didn't
seem strange at all to me
at the time.
Looking back and from
this perspective,
they seem really strange.
But there was no time.
I could not conceive
of the past.
of the future.
In that place they
did not exist.
Everything was now.
And it was so, well of course.
I mean that's the way it is.
And there was
something else that
was-- it didn't seem strange.
But it seems strange now, is
everybody who's ever lived,
everybody who's ever
going to live was there.
And when I say those
words it sounds
like there's all
like a really crowded
stadium with all these people.
But it wasn't like that.
It was like we were one.
So their consciousness
was there.
But we were separate.
And I can't-- I cannot conceive
of this in this reality.
But there, there was no
separation between anyone.
But somehow we were individual.
I know it's weird.
But-- and there was this
music, beautiful music,
and light and music
were the same thing.
They weren't separate.
Where in this reality
they're separate.
The most overwhelming experience
of that place was love.
It was different than the
kind of love we have here.
Here, you know, I love you.
And you love me, and--
but we're separate.
Yes.
Yes, I understand.
And that is-- it's hard
to put words to it.
Because there's
nothing that we can
compare it to in this world,
in our current reality.
There's always this sense,
even when the love is
so deep and so
profound, there's always
a sense of being separate.
In that place there
was no separation
between you and love,
between love and another.
It was instant and always.
And even those people that
maybe we've had challenges with,
and it's not even forgiveness.
Because forgiveness is kind
of like, well you did wrong,
and I'm forgiving you.
It's not even like that.
It's like I am.
You are.
We are.
It makes sense to me.
It does make sense to me.
Because I have had that state of
consciousness in an experience
that I had where I
almost died, as well.
And I do understand what
you're talking about.
But when you came
back to consciousness,
did you take that feeling
back into the emergency room,
in dealing with
the physical issues
and talking to police about this
person, and identifying him?
How did you translate that on?
Well just quickly, I didn't
want to leave that place.
And when I've talked
to people who'd
had near-death experiences,
that don't want to leave.
There was this river,
beautiful river.
And I knew it was
a river of light.
It was golden.
And I knew if I could get
across that river I would
never come back to my body.
And I got about halfway through.
And I felt like I got roped.
I'm like-- I'm Cherokee
on my mother's side,
and my family was
involved in the rodeo.
So as a kid my cousins
would practice roping on me.
So I'm like, I'm getting roped.
People say it was--
my astral cord.
And I'm getting-- getting
yanked back into my body,
as I hear a voice.
It's a deep and booming voice,
saying, it's not your time.
You have to go back.
There's some things
you need to do.
And at that point I got
yanked back into my body.
And the doctors couldn't
believe that I came back.
-Yeah.
-They were astonished.
In fact, some--
one of the doctors
said I was written up in a
medical journal somewhere.
I don't know.
How long will you dead for?
You know--
Did they ever say?
It doesn't matter, does it?
-They probably did.
I don't remember.
I imagine it wasn't long.
But it was long enough.
It seemed like when I
was on the other side,
it seemed like a long time.
But you know, it probably
was just a very short time.
Who knows?
But the amount of damage
that you endured with all
of the physicality that
you were talking about,
the organs, and the spleen,
and the adrenal gland
that were all literally shot.
How did you experience
that when you came
from this place of
bliss, and you were
pulled back in, so to speak?
Do you know?
Until that point, I as
a young teenage girl,
identified with my body.
I was my body.
You know, and teen-aged
girls, you know, if the body
gets big they have traumas.
Because they think
they are big, or-- it
was all those kind of thoughts.
I think I was 115, and
thought I should lose weight.
But until that point, I
thought I was my body.
And when I came back,
I realized that was
so little of who I was.
I realized that I and
all of us are infinite
and forever, and universal.
The other thing
that happened was I
began to see things
other people didn't see.
I saw a lights around
plants and people.
And I heard sounds.
Like every blade of
grass has a song.
And every blade of
grass has light.
And-- and when I tried to tell
people about this they thought,
well, you know, it's
the drugs you're on.
But after I wasn't on the
pain medication anymore,
I still heard things
and saw things,
and-- and began to
perceive a world
so different than the
world I perceived before.
And you still do now, right?
Yeah, I do.
And my body healed
really quickly.
I mean within-- I still don't
have those glands and organs,
but it hasn't seemed
to make a difference.
Do you think that's
because of the state of mind
that you're in, or
did you do training
around your body healing or
did it just heal that fast?
My body healed that fast.
Eventually I did want to
learn more about healing.
And I trained in native
cultures around the world,
and entered into the
realm, and became a healer,
of the realm of healing.
But it just healed.
And I think there's
a reason why.
And it's one of
the things I really
love working with people is I
believe inside of every person
is a-- it's like an ember.
An ember, and maybe
it's covered with ash.
But-- but if that ember
bursts into flame,
and it doesn't even
have to be a big flame,
a flame of remembering
who you are, just like I
came back knowing I
was more than my body.
I think that ember
ignites a healing force.
It's such a huge lesson for
us to understand and to learn
from, what you went through.
So I wanted to ask you again,
when you were identifying
this man, did you ever go back
to that feeling of compassion
when you were identifying him to
police, and when he was caught,
and all that you've learned
about him since then?
You know, when I saw him,
I was actually scared,
when I saw him in person.
In through the photos or you?
No they took me into
the police station.
Oh, goodness.
Well the first time
was they actually took
me at night to a gas station.
They said, we think
he works here.
And so they wanted me
to stand outside the car
to identify him.
But they said, wear sunglasses.
Nobody will notice.
I'm thinking, OK.
It's like nighttime.
Nobody wear sunglasses in this
part-- it's not California.
No one wears
sunglasses at night.
So that was a little scary.
They said, don't worry.
We're here.
We've got our guns out.
I'm like oh my god.
And incredibly traumatized
teenager with missing organs,
and they bring you to a
parking lot at a gas station.
-Yeah.
-But he-- he wasn't there then.
But then they took me
to a police station.
And they had-- had
him sitting in a room
facing towards an open door.
And they had me walk by.
And it was-- that was scary.
It was very scary.
I was not in that same
place, had that compassion.
Years later, I did
enter into a place
of deep compassion for him.
It came out of actually the
past-life work that I did.
And when I went back into
a past life and saw, OK.
This didn't start in this life.
This started in another time.
And doing that was powerful.
That's one of the
lessons that I think is
so, so powerful from all this.
And I want you to teach us on
how to do a little of that.
But, so you identified him.
He was arrested.
And he wound up in jail.
-Right.
And he was caught?
He was caught.
It was a really big
case, a guy named J Edgar
Hoover got involved did it.
And the FBI got involved in it.
Because one of the people
that this man had killed
was a senator's niece.
So it-- and it had
got a lot of publicity
across the United States.
And a-- a big law
firm in New York
came pro bono to defend him.
And this is a tiny little town
with a tiny little prosecutor.
I mean he wasn't tiny.
But I mean without all the
resources of a big law firm.
And there was no way
he could be innocent.
The-- the bullet-- the evidence.
The bullet from his gun
matched the bullet in my body.
The paint from his car matched
the paint on my motorbike.
I identified him.
Someone who actually knew
him, even though he didn't
live in the area, had
noticed him, and noticed him
following me.
So wouldn't you think
that would do it?
But in those days,
and it's-- thank
goodness it's different now.
There was kind of the thought
if it's in the newspaper,
it's true.
And-- and the idea
was that if you
can prove that the person
deserved to be shot,
they could get off.
And so what they did is they
made up stuff in the newspaper.
They said that I
was a drug addict.
Well, I didn't even
smoke cigarettes.
I mean--
-Wow.
I was an A student.
I was a cheerleader.
I was a class officer.
I was like, you know,
a good-- good girl.
And then they said that
I was going to orgies
with people of other races.
And it listed the races.
Which I mean now no one
could get away with that.
I was a virgin.
I mean, you know,
I kissed a boy once.
It's like, oh my god.
And then they said
I was a communist.
Now that probably, at that
time was the worst thing.
And I'm like, I can
barely spell communism.
I don't even know what that is.
So they spun your story
for you to be the bad guy.
-Yeah.
-Don't tell me this guy got off.
He got off.
I thought you were
going to say that.
He got off.
And-- and the stories
in the newspaper
were so horrific that I had-- in
high school I got voted nicest,
you know how they do that.
It's kind of silly,
in high school.
In the yearbook, yeah.
Yearbook.
Well, because the
stories were so horrific
in the newspaper, none-- I had--
I used to have so many friends.
I had no friends.
My best friend wasn't
allowed to talk to me.
When I would walk
down the street,
this little tiny
farming community,
people would walk
to the other side.
I had nothing.
And my mother, who had been in
and out of mental hospitals,
was-- she ran away for a while.
My father left.
I mean it was-- I had nothing.
And so I moved to
another little town.
And I got a--
How old were you?
At that point, I was
pushing 18, I think.
Everyone else was--
You're still a teenage.
Everyone else went
off to college.
And I couldn't afford
to go to college.
So I got a job at a truck stop,
washing dishes, and trying
to earn money to go to college.
And I was eating cat food, and--
-Oh my god.
I mean, yeah it
didn't last very long.
It tasted really-- you'd think.
If you look at the
ingredients, tuna and vitamins.
You'd think, what
could be wrong?
It's tuna and vitamins.
It tastes terrible.
Of course.
And I really-- to
die-- I tried to-- I
was going to kill myself.
Because I had nothing.
I had no family support.
I had no friends.
You were ostracized
by your community.
You had this horrific
trauma in your life.
You know though, something
kind of wonderful happened.
I had decided I was
going to kill myself.
And so I-- this was a
town that was in Ohio.
There's this river
called the Maumee River.
It sounds like mommy, but
it's spelled differently.
And I decided I was going
to-- and it was very cold,
it was late November.
And I decided I was
going to one night,
I was going to jump off a
bridge into the Maumee River,
and I was going to kill myself.
And I-- I don't
know what it was.
It must by been about 2:00
or 3:00 in the morning.
And I had to walk through
a park at nighttime,
to get to the bridge
so I could jump off.
And as was walking
through the park,
there was-- I saw a young
man sitting on a bench.
Now normally you
would never go up
to a man sitting on a bench
2:00 or 3:00 in the morning,
in the middle of the night.
You wouldn't.
But I thought, what
can he do to me
that I'm not going to do
it myself in a few minutes.
So I just walked up to him.
And I said, are you OK?
And he said, no.
And so I sat down.
And I said, what's going on.
He went on to explain that he
was on his way to kill himself.
Oh.
But, see I'd never heard
of anyone else killing
themselves on that bridge.
Because, I don't know,
farming community.
It wasn't too-- I don't know.
It just wasn't a common thing.
I'd never heard of it.
But it didn't occur to me how
unusual that was at the time.
And he explained--
he was about my age.
And he was explaining
about all these things
that were happening
in his life, and how
just life wasn't worth living.
So I said, you know what.
It seems really bad now.
But you're young.
You're going to make it.
You just have to just, you
know, just give it a shot.
Just keep going, and
don't let it stop you.
And so I gave him a pep talk.
And as I did, I felt
better and better.
And finally he said,
oh thank you so much.
And at that point the sun
was just starting to rise.
And I could remember
the snow that
had looked so dirty
at, you know, 2:30
in the morning; looked
so glowing and pink.
And I felt so good.
And I turned around
and walked back.
Now I know that was an angel.
I believe in angels.
I had angelic experiences
when I was in the hospital.
I have had angelic
experiences since then.
But I know that was an angel.
And angels sometimes
they come with the wings.
You know, but most
often they come
in a form you can relate to.
And you never saw him again?
No.
So you were basically
counseling yourself?
He saved me.
And he came in a form
that I could relate to.
And you give him
all the advice that
should have given yourself.
Yeah.
And you essentially
gave to yourself.
Right.
And so after that you stayed
and did your life turn around?
Eventually it wasn't--
it wasn't easy.
Eventually I made
it into college.
Eventually I began-- I wanted
to find out more about healing.
Because of my own
journey with my own body.
I wanted to find out more about
the lights that I was seeing,
and the music I was hearing.
It's not music like a symphony.
It's more like tones.
And eventually I trained
with the Hawaiian Kahuna,
and eventually with shamans
in different traditions.
In different healers you
were able to find your way.
Yeah.
Which is, as I say, your
story is so incredible.
And there's so many details.
That if anybody has ever been in
the position of wanting to end
it all, and coming to you
now and saying my life
is not worth living, you
have such an enormous story
to tell people.
It's incredible.
So how do you-- you
mentioned that you had
a past life with this person.
Or that you look back now,
at all that you've learned.
And you see that it
happened before this moment.
What do you mean by that?
Well, you know, I
talked about when you're
in those traumatic
situations, how it all
can seem like it's going slow.
It's like time slows down.
And I can remember when he was
holding the gun, the thought.
And I remember the thought
that went through my head.
And the thought was,
if you want to kill me
you're aiming too low.
You need to aim
higher to kill me.
Now that is a very
strange thought to have.
Yes.
And I kept thinking, why
did I have that thought?
Right.
And so in a
past-life regression,
and a past-life regression is
something I'm passionate about.
I've written about.
I've done it in I think 25
countries around the world,
is regressing people
back into past lives.
It's something I
really believe in.
And- and I want you to tell
what that is, a little bit.
Yeah.
What is past-life regression?
Oh.
Past-life regression
is literally
going on an inner journey,
past your conscious mind
into your subconscious,
to remember who you were.
And going through
a visualization.
A visualization, yeah.
It's like a visualization.
I call it inner journey.
But it's like a visualization.
You could even say it's
like your imagination.
And you are now since then a
past-life regression therapist.
There are many--
Yes, and I train
people to do that.
But the past life with him
that I went back, so I needed
to preface that with how.
So I regressed myself
back to find out
why did I have this thought.
You know, if you're
going to shoot me,
you need to aim a little higher.
And I saw a past life that
for him was really difficult,
where it was a life in China.
And in this village
we all lived on houses
that were up on stilts.
And there was a man in town
who was the untouchable.
And that was him.
And there were holes
in the floor where
we would put our waste
products, human waste
products and things.
And he would come every morning
and crawl underneath the stilts
to collect the waste products.
And for him, for us-- at that
point there wasn't even--
it was almost like we
didn't even relate to him.
Because he was an untouchable.
For us it wasn't
that big of a deal.
But for him it was
a huge, big deal.
And it's interesting.
Because in that life
he was rejected.
And after the trial, I
was rejected by a town.
So-- so-- and for
him shooting me,
it probably wasn't
that big of a deal.
But it was a huge
big deal for me.
But in that life,
does that make sense?
Yes, in a way.
And it makes more sense as you
explain past-life regression.
And the memory that you're
talking about was so clear.
You're talking about
it as if it was real.
And-- and I don't look at
past lives as punishment.
We were bad in the past life.
So we have to be
punished in this life.
I don't look at it like that.
I look at it as
almost like a choice.
It's like we choose experiences
that will allow us to deepen
our compassion, to
deepen our understanding,
to deepen our love.
Do you think it's ever
a correcting of karma,
or if it's a
completing a circle.
I-- I would probably
look at it more
like a completing of a circle.
-Than anything?
Yeah.
Rather than, even
correcting a cycle
sounds a little bit
like punishment.
It isn't punishment.
I almost think, I can
almost imagine us,
we're up in the spirit world,
and there's some little clouds.
And we look at all of our
incarnations and say, you know,
I just need a little
bit of humility.
How about you incarnate with
me, and teach me humility?
And the guy says, no way.
I'm not-- I'm not going
to incarnate with you.
And you're like, oh.
And then you find
another guy, hey, hey.
Why don't you incarnate with me?
Teach me humility.
I'm not going to mess
up my incarnation
teaching you humility.
And finally you find
someone that you're deeply
connected to on a soul level.
Will you incarnate with me?
I really would like
to learn humility.
And he goes, OK.
Only because I love you.
And so you run, jump
into baby bodies.
And he into baby bodies.
And you get bigger,
bigger, bigger.
And eventually he's your boss.
And he teaches you humility.
And you hate him.
And you forget how it got
set up in the first place.
That is a wonderful story of
what it means to reincarnate.
That's an incredible story.
It's a way of telling it that's
a teaching story, the way
that you just explained that.
And if we could look
at people in our lives,
whomever seemingly done
something wrong that we felt
wronged by, to look at
it from that perspective,
causes the healing that you
sit here and embody right now.
It's an enormous example
in healing of who you are.
So teaching us a little bit
about getting into that place
of finding out who
those people are,
and going into a past life.
And by the way, I just
wanted to ask really quickly,
whatever happened to the guy?
Eventually he-- eventually
he did go to prison.
And then he got out, and
then went back to prison.
And-- and now he's
in the spirit world.
-So he was killed in prison?
-No.
He I think just got out of
prison and died of old age.
So to complete that
story, I wanted to know,
because it creates a
closure on that end.
So you teach now about dreams.
You teach about
past-life regression.
You teach about clearing space.
And the sentence that I said
at the beginning of the show
is that you teach really
how to become more conscious
in your life, and
ultimately to become
more loving by
connecting yourself
in various ways in your life.
So how does past-life
regression, or even listening
to your dreams, help us become
more conscious and more loving?
Do you know in-- I don't
have a private practice now.
I just do group regressions.
But when I had a private
practice and people would come
and they would
talk about somebody
who had really victimized them.
And when we would regress back
to that event in a past life,
always this was what-- this
was what was astonishing to me.
Always I found that there
was this depth of love
when they went back far enough.
And I though, isn't
that interesting?
The people that we feel
victimized the most by often
there is a soul contract, a
soul agreement if you will.
Often those are the people
that on a soul level
we have the deepest love.
And someone might be
listening, and saying no way.
My ex-husband,
we're like-- no way.
Right.
But it always amazed me.
And it would even amaze
the people who would go
on these past-life regressions.
Because I wouldn't
have any agenda.
Just let's see
where it takes us.
But over and over again, they
would experience that love,
and in doing so it healed them.
You know that old
expression, feeling
resentment is like
swallowing poison,
hoping the other person dies?
So I've not heard that, yeah.
So it's kind of like that.
It's like we don't forgive
for the other person.
We forgive for ourselves.
For ourselves.
And so that ultimately leads you
to a place of self-acceptance?
It-- you know, I said I've had
angelic experiences since then?
And I've never seen
an angel with wings.
And I've always wanted to.
I've met people, who say, oh
I saw an angel with wings.
And I'm like, oh I've never
seen an angel with wings.
And I was taking
a walk in Seattle.
There's a lake
called Green Lake.
And I was walking
around the lake.
And I was thinking,
I really want
to see an angel with wings.
I really want to see
an angel with wings.
It was like a mantra
as I'm walking.
And this beautiful,
older black man,
wearing colorful clothes
on roller skates,
he started roller
skating around me.
And then he was roller skating
in front of me backwards.
And he was laughing.
And he had these
beautiful, clear eyes.
And he said, I want
to tell you something.
The only thing that's
important is love of self,
love of others, and love of god.
Nothing else is important.
And it was almost as if
well-- then he skated off.
And I thought oh
my god, oh my god.
It was an angel.
And I thought, but I still want
to see an angel with wings.
But he was just saying--
What a message.
Yeah.
It's not important whether you
see an angel with wings or not.
That's not what this is about.
What it's about is love.
And it sounds so cheesy.
But really that's
what it's about.
And love to me is acceptance.
Acceptance is love.
Love of self, accepting
yourself unconditionally.
You know, you drank too much.
You're on the floor on the
throw-up up and go, oh god.
There I go again.
I mean it doesn't mean
you don't take action.
But it means to have
not to rack yourself,
if you eat that piece
of chocolate cake,
not to rack yourself
with guilt and shame.
It's just like it was good.
And that's total
self-acceptance.
Yeah, just accepting yourself,
and knowing that you're
doing the best you can.
-Yes.
That's an amazing story, where
he said these things toy you.
You remember exactly
what he said.
And then he skated away.
You have had some
extraordinary stories.
And so you teach people
how to-- to basically get
to that place of self-acceptance
through past-life regression,
through listening
to your dreams.
We actually have a
video of you on Oprah.
And this is Denise Linn
talking about her dreams.
Let's take a look.
My bedroom is my sanctuary.
It's the place that I
can go, shut the door,
and really shut out the world.
And it's the place where I
can connect with my spirit.
I have a really busy life.
And I find that sometimes
I just get drained.
And it means so much
to me to have one place
where I can refuel, where
I can gain my energy back.
I like flowers.
I like wonderful smells.
I like the textures of the
bedding and the curtains.
I love the candlelight
at night, and the warmth
that it brings into the bedroom.
The scenes of nature
that I have in my bedroom
were painted by my husband,
and that really feeds my soul.
My bed was made by my husband.
And when I'm in it,
not only does it
carry the love of my husband.
But it also carries a sense of
strength and stability for me.
So many people get into bed
and they turn the TV on.
And it really-- it takes
them out of their life.
I don't have a TV in my bedroom.
I don't have a phone,
the reason being it
was so easy to pick that phone
up and start doing business.
And that place that was a
sanctuary all of a sudden
wasn't a sanctuary.
Even an alarm clock can
pull you away from yourself.
When you wake up first
thing in the morning
to that jangling sound, it
sets an energy for the day.
How much better it is
to awake to soft music,
for example, or to awake to
the sun coming in your window.
As much as possible, it's
important to have space
underneath the bed to
have a sense of clarity,
even if it can't be seen.
Our subconscious mind is aware
that directly beneath our body
is a lot of disorganization.
Every single thing
in your bedroom
should be something
you love, or you use.
It should have meaning to you.
If you focus on things
that are beautiful,
you will see beauty around you,
and the space that you live in
can be a template for
what you desire in life.
If you desire to have
more peace in your life,
create an environment
that feels peaceful.
If you want more
adventure in your life,
create an environment
that feels adventuresome.
I think of my bedroom
as a sacred space.
It's a place for rejuvenation,
a place for healing,
a place where I refuel, where
I can go and feed my soul,
where I can go and do nothing.
And then that nothing
is everything.
So you just shared with
me that when you were asked
on the Oprah Show that was the
first time that you had taught
in the United
States, or that you
presented in the United States.
Well, here's what was amazing.
I like I said, I've taught in
25 countries around the world.
And I would always go
where people asked me.
And I would only get asked
to little tiny countries
in the middle of nowhere.
But I never got asked to
teach in the United States.
And I thought, it's
just so strange
that it's my own country.
But I'm not been asked here.
So I did a very deep
meditation to look
and see what's that all about.
And I saw that I was
afraid that the man who
shot me, because at
that point he was-- I
mean he wasn't in jail.
That he would find me,
and that he would--
he would-- because he
had said, I'll get you.
He said that to you--
Someone told me he
had-- the policeman
told me had said that.
So--
When he was arrested?
Yeah.
And as he was going off to jail.
And then he got out.
But so I was afraid.
But I didn't know
that I was afraid.
And I thought, I do not want
to live my life in fear.
And so I made a stand.
I just-- I could
remember so clearly.
I stood up at my
home office, my desk.
And I said, I face this.
And probably within an hour,
I got a telephone call from
the producer of the Oprah Show.
And I thought, oh my gosh.
I declared.
I'm ready to face my fear.
But I'm thinking, couldn't be
like a little local TV show?
Why does it have
to be like Oprah?
And then I'm back-pedalling.
And I said, OK.
I'll come on.
But I will not talk
about getting shot.
Because my name's different now.
And people said, friends said,
no mass murderer is going
to be watching Oprah anyway.
So don't worry.
Well, you couldn't be so
sure, because you had a child.
I did have a child.
And I was-- and I think when I
was facing my fear and looking,
my fear was as
much for her as it
was for me, probably more so.
Because at the point was
very protective of her.
But I went.
And-- and it was scary.
But I'm so glad that I did it.
Yes.
Absolutely.
So you were teaching then
about-- about space clearing.
You were teaching about how
to set up your environment.
And you were using your
dream work at that time.
And that was what you were
brought on the Oprah Show
for, right?
That-- I've been on the
Oprah show several times.
That particular show was about
living life with passion.
So it was-- and I
can admit this now.
Because it was a long time ago.
I didn't actually-- there was
like the five-point passion.
And a friend of mine
who was a journalist
had written up this, Denise
Linn's five points for passion.
But she was a friend, and
she made up the five points.
But she didn't ask me.
She said, Oh I knew it
would be OK with you.
So they found this article.
And they liked it so much.
And they said, well
you know, come and talk
about your five points.
And I said, well
what five points?
And they said it
was in this article.
I'm like OK.
I'll talk about--
You've had such
a miraculous life.
I mean there's people
who have written
volumes and wanted to be
on Oprah all of their life,
and you're--
But I think it was
the universe saying,
you have declared to
the creator that you
are ready to face this fear.
So step up.
I mean to me, I think,
because it wasn't my plan.
I didn't even-- I mean, I
was surprised about this.
I didn't know about the
article until that point.
Well, that just shows that you
were in such a miraculous place
in your life.
And you're teaching through
all of your stories,
which I absolutely love.
But there's another incredible
example of how you ultimately
have used forgiveness so many
different times in your life,
with your father.
Now your parents, you said,
you didn't communicate that
much with them after college?
-No.
It was-- just to
take a step back.
My mother was very violent.
She was paranoid schizophrenic.
She-- they put her-- the
first time they put her
in a mental hospital, it
was because they thought
she was going to kill me.
She was very violent.
And it was scary.
You know, often I'd sleep
in the bathtub at night,
and lock the door.
I mean it was really scary.
Because sometimes she would
come in the middle the night,
and start hitting
us, and mostly me.
I was the oldest.
And then when she was
in the mental hospital
my father was
sexually abusing me.
He'd take me and
put me in this bed.
Oh my god.
And in those days
you could not tell.
You just-- and especially
when you're threatened.
You just can't tell.
And it was horrific.
And those scars,
especially from my father,
you would think the worst
would be the physical violence.
But especially from my father,
those scars went so deep.
And he-- he had cancer.
And-- and I got a phone
call that he was dying.
And I kept wanting
him to apologize.
I knew how deep those
wounds in me were.
And I thought, if he
apologizes then I can heal.
And I was so excited.
Because, I mean,
this sounds terrible.
He's dying.
And I'm thinking, oh
I can finally heal.
But that was what was true.
Of course, yes.
And so I'm on the
plane, and thinking I
can finally heal those wounds
from that childhood abuse.
And I got off the plane.
And someone came up to me
at the airport and said,
well he's dead.
And I thought,
well he can't die.
I have to heal.
I need to finish this.
I have to finish this.
And so I said, well,
I want to see him.
And they said, well no.
He's going to be cremated.
You can't see him.
And I said, I'm
going to see him.
And he was in a warehouse.
When I arrived at the warehouse,
they didn't want me in.
They said, well
you can't see him.
And I said, I'm
going to see him.
And eventually I was
pretty insistent,
I went back to this little
room that was fluorescent lit.
There was an old
wooden crate to sit on.
And there was my dead father.
Now when he was alive, I
never liked him to touch me.
It really-- it made me nauseous.
It activated all those
childhood memories.
I understand.
But for the first time
ever, I touched him.
And I touched his cold hands,
and his toes and his forehead.
And then all of a sudden
I started screaming.
And I can imagine the people in
the warehouse like, oh my gosh!
Wow.
And I screamed like, how could
you do that to a little girl?
How could you?
And I'm screaming.
And at one point I had to
get a subsequent surgery
after the original surgery.
And I didn't have any money.
And the doctor said, if
you don't get this surgery,
you'll die.
And I asked him if he could
help me with the surgery.
He goes, well I hope
you can find some money.
And I'm like, how can you
say that to your daughter?
She's going to die without this.
I'm screaming and screaming.
And all of a sudden, I
just felt like a balloon
that had deflated.
It was like-- and the whole
room seemed to glow golden.
And I said out loud, I don't
even know if I believe this.
But I'm going to
say these words.
I forgive you.
And suddenly, I heard his voice.
And he said all of those years
when you were waiting for me
to ask for your
forgiveness, I was
waiting for you to forgive me.
And in that moment it dissolved.
I forgave him.
I love him.
And I don't think--
I think forgiveness
comes when it comes.
It can't be forced.
But in that moment it was done.
That is even hard to
conceptualize that he would
have been asking or waiting
for you to forgive him
in order to ask for forgiveness.
And that's not a
thought that you would
have even attempted to think.
-No.
It was amazing.
And I left feeling
such a depth of peace.
Your stories of
forgiveness are so powerful.
And that you are
even here to tell
these stories without bursting
into tears is amazing.
You truly have healed from
your experiences, haven't you?
I have.
I am so blessed.
And you when you
tell the stories,
I'm surprised that
you're not crying.
Do you feel that you've
completed so much?
I do.
You've completed the
cellular memory, everything?
Do you know?
There are places in my
body that still react.
Sure.
That would make sense.
Because of the trauma.
Yes
Especially from my father.
But in terms of my
mind and my emotions,
it's-- I'm pretty clear.
You have done an
enormous amount of work.
Yeah.
I mean there's always layers.
But I've taken care of a lot
of the big layers, anyway.
You have.
And that's what you
teach these days,
is to teach getting
through the layers.
And through this,
you have infused
spirituality into almost
everything that you do.
How do you teach to infuse
spirituality into life?
How you do that?
I mean at what point do you
bring in spirit to help you?
Is it always there for you?
Or is it something you
consciously have to go to?
I believe in the
power of gratitude.
And when I've looked at my life,
and I've really taken the time
to discern how did I make it
when so many other people with
similar circumstances didn't?
What strategy did I use?
What method was valuable, so I
could share that with others?
And what I realized was
I have a gratitude cell.
Oh my goodness, you must.
Right next to the
forgiveness cell.
And simply, simply
being grateful.
I believe that is
what has healed me.
And there's always--
there is always
something to be grateful for.
There is always something
to be grateful for.
And if you can focus
on that, that is
what will expand in your life.
-Wow.
Well you have an incredible
connection with the divine.
We have a video here
of you in action.
This is Denise Linn
in a beautiful state
of practicing infusing
spirituality into your life.
Hay-ay-ay-ya.
Hay-ay-ya.
Hay-ya-hay-ya-hay-ya
Hay-ya-hay-ya-hay-ya.
Hay-ya.
Hay-ya means come spirit.
We invite you to this place.
We invite you into our hearts.
We invite you into our lives.
Hay-ya.
So in that video
you were chanting
a Native American chant.
And you mentioned earlier,
you are half Cherokee, right?
I'm Cherokee on
my mother's side.
And she was passionately about
gaining rights for her people.
She wasn't so passionate
about the spirituality.
But I tend to think
it's in my blood.
So I've had a passion
for understanding more
about my roots, my
Native American roots.
And have you since
then explored that more?
I have.
And also I've spent time
with the Zulu in Africa.
I was adopted into a Maori
tribe in New Zealand.
I've spent time with the
Aborigines in Australia.
And I've also explored
my tribal traditions,
as well as other Native
American tribal traditions.
So bringing in the
dreams teachings
that you also bring in, in
the past-life regression.
I-- I just love
everything that you do,
and how it's all being tied
together to show us how
to ultimately accept ourselves.
And so you teach about dreams.
You teach about
past-life regression.
And all of that tied into
a wonderful body of work
that you talk about in terms
of clearing your space.
What got you into that--
that line of talking?
Do you know?
Many years ago I was
teaching in Hong Kong.
And I heard about
something called feng shui.
And at the time there
were no books out.
In fact, I wrote the
second book ever written
in English on feng shui.
-Really?
And I coined the
word space clearing.
And I-- and now there's lots
of books on space clearing.
And so many of the things that
I trained in native cultures
were space clearing,
but there wasn't
a universal word for that.
So out of that early passion
of meeting people in China,
and they talked about
the way you organize
your home can affect your life.
I began to do space clearing.
But also begin to train
people to do space clearing,
and train people in what I call
interior alignment, you know,
how to align your inner life
with your outer environment.
And that is truly what
you-- what you've done
is that through
the space clearing,
you related it back to how
to create different things
or shift different
things in your life.
I've done that
myself in my life.
-It works.
-It absolutely works.
Every single culture, native
culture, ancient culture,
employed space clearing, for
the simple reason is it works.
It does.
The largest Realtor in New York
had some high-end buildings.
They weren't selling.
She hired a space clearer in.
And all of a sudden those
buildings started to sell.
It was reported in
the New York Times.
They didn't know that space
clearer had been in there.
But it felt different.
Space clearing works.
It feels different.
Here's a quick video that you
could look at on how Denise
Linn teaches how to
clear your space,
and how it affects
your relationships.
Take a look.
Not only are we aligning
the outer form, the home,
the furnishings, the furniture.
But also we're
aligning ourselves,
spiritual as well as
physical, and aligning
that with our environment.
And I find that the two
together work very powerfully.
To me, the kitchen represents
nurturing, not just the body,
but nurturing the soul.
In ancient times people would
always gather in the kitchen.
That was the place
where the stories were
told around the evening fire.
One of the things that creates
a feeling of well-being for me
in the kitchen is
we painted it green.
And for me green has to do
with nature, with fresh growth.
On the refrigerator I have
pictures of my family,
and of happy times.
Because I think it's
really important
that the photographs that
you have in your home
reflect happiness.
So every time you
look at it, it brings
back that wonderful memory.
Denise has been married
to David Linn for 26 years.
Meadow, their
22-year-old daughter,
is studying French
culture in France.
David likes to spend
his time either
outdoors or in his basement
studio, painting landscapes.
He's also business manager,
cook and master builder.
And although supportive,
David doesn't always agree
with his wife's design ideas.
There was a lot of
Buddhas, maybe 20 or more,
Indian Buddhas, Japanese
Buddhas, Chinese Buddhas,
a lot of Buddhas.
I love the fact
that he supports me.
He thinks we have too
many Buddhas in the house.
He's always looking
for a Buddha-free zone.
I lived two and a half years
in a Zen Buddhist monastery.
So Buddha is a symbol
that means a lot to me.
When we were
designing this house,
I wanted one place in the
house that was just for me.
It's a small house.
So well, we had an extra closet.
So we turned the closet
into a meditation room.
Even taking just a couple
of minutes in the morning,
I find has a strong
effect on not just
my spirit, but also my body.
Research has been
done that has shown
even just a few
minutes of meditation
stimulates the immune system.
And I feel stronger.
I get less colds.
I feel-- my whole body feels
more vibrant and healthy.
Space clearing is
basically using
very specific techniques in
a space to shift the feeling,
shift the energy.
In ancient cultures,
people would
never consider moving into a
home without clearing it first.
This was unthinkable.
And using these ancient
techniques in modern times,
we can make a big difference
in the way our homes feel.
For me, the dining
room is a place.
It's similar to the kitchen.
And for us, it's the place
where we finally sit down
and we share about our day.
Not very much,
miniature everything.
I have put a lot of
warmth into my dining room.
Because I want to
bring that feeling.
We have a lot of candles.
And in addition in the dining
room, I placed an alter.
And it's an alter that I've
dedicated to inner peace.
Having that particular
alter in the dining room
brings a sense of
balance and harmony.
And for me, this is what
health is all about.
And the food that we
take into our body
has an effect on the health.
And it's a much
more potent effect
if we are feeling
relaxed and at peace
when we're taking that food in.
So having this altar
dedicated to inner peace
in this very special
place really, I feel,
generates a very
healthy and life-giving
energy into our dining space.
To Meadow.
When people live in an
environment that is nurturing
it affects everything.
It affects their prosperity.
It affects their health.
It affects their relationships.
I remember asking you
before, how do you tie
all that you teach together?
And in terms of your
incredible enormous story,
and the journey we've been
on in this short hour,
encapsulates your life, lady.
I mean, you're
extraordinary with what
you have been through.
And it is such an
example, to me at least,
that if you can go through
all that you've gone through
and come out to teach
to a worldwide audience,
you are one of the most
popular authors at Hay House.
You have lectures all over the
world, an incredibly popular
radio show on Hay House Radio.
All that you've done with
your best-selling 17 books
that you can come
out on the other end
to teach, and have such
an enormous following.
I have to ask you.
Why do you think that
people are so attracted
to you and your message?
-You know--
I told you I wasn't going
to ask you this question,
but your answer is so beautiful.
From inside myself,
I have no clue.
But people tend to tell
me over and over again
that they like my humility.
And I don't feel very humble.
So I'm always surprised
when people say that.
They also say that they
feel a mothering energy.
And I don't have great
associations for mothers.
My mother was not
a great mother.
So I'm like, really?
But because thousand of
people have told me that.
That that's what they say.
I don't experience
either of those things.
I mean I am a mother
and I love my daughter.
And you are a mother.
And that also is
a whole miracle.
It was a miracle.
You were not supposed
to have children.
No.
I was told I would
never have children.
And had damage to your ovaries.
And you had your
beautiful little baby,
whose now your daughter.
And you created this
incredible cookbook.
I know.
We co-wrote a cookbook.
And it's not an ordinary
cookbook, either.
This is the proud
mother speaking.
Like I say.
-See.
She's a mother.
-No.
It's a great cookbook.
It has kitchen feng
shui and chakra meals.
It's a great cookbook.
It's a good book.
It's a really good one
to have in your kitchen.
Because it teaches about
the alchemy of food.
So I mean you are an alchemist.
You have changed your life.
You've changed your dramatic
story into one that teaches,
that inspires, that helps us
understand our past lives,
and really ultimately you
teach and you live forgiveness.
And I thank you so much.
I love you so much.
Your energy and your
spirit being here
and your mentorship is
absolutely beautiful.
I have such a special
place in my heart for you.
Thank you so much
for being here.
Wow.
Thank you.
-I appreciate it definitely.
-Wow.
Thank you.
-Yes.
I know that you felt that.
And I can't get through one
interview without crying.
You have touched
my heart so much.
Thank you so much.
You have mine as well,
and our listeners as well.
So thank you so much.
And I ask you to inspire other
people with this interview
as well.
Share it with your friends
by going to GAIAMTV.com.
You can share this
interview with Denise Linn.
And until next time, I invite
you all to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]